./html_data_bitcoins/flexibit-caters-bitcoin-users.txt



CryptoCoinsNews
This is a sponsored story.
Bitcoin investors large and small can enjoy the same professional management of funds as large institutional investors and receive stable, long-term returns. Investors can place bitcoin in an online investment fund managed by Flexibles International Group Inc.

Flexibles International Group has evolved from serving a small group of private investors to a large asset management company handling $20 million annually. The company is preparing to expand its reach with a new approach, a Global Investment Platform, to guarantee small investors sustainable passive income guaranteed. The company uses a unique asset management approach.
Registered in Belize since 2007, Flexibles International Group has developed an approach specifically for smaller investments. All of the company’s asset management funds use a simple structure that is easy to understand.
FlexiBit scrutinizes all assets using the same valuation criteria, large or small, quoted or unquoted. The team combines rigorous analysis of the economic variables impacting the assets. Such an approach enables construction of robust investment rationales.
The focus remains fixed on the fundamentals and the long term.
FlexiBit only invests where a compelling profit gaining opportunity exists. Investments are not made in assets with the purpose of making a fund look more like a share index. This is in the interest of delivering positive mid- to long-term returns. At times, a fund will behave differently from the overall market.
Riskier assets call for investing less for a shorter time period to ensure achieving target profit margin. Due diligence focuses on establishing a solid understanding of the asset and the scope of the long-term market opportunity.
FlexiBit preserves capital through diversification by investing in a larger number of smaller positions. The focus is on absolute risk and delivering a positive return over the long term.
The investment approach focuses on value discovery versus price discovery. Focusing on valuation and identifying assets that deliver sustainable growth delivers long-term outcomes.
FlexiBit’s strategy includes active engagement with company management teams. Such an approach helps to represent investors’ interests in discussion with management teams. Successful investment requires a partnership between owners and managers.
Investors can invest any amount of bitcoins and add funds to their account to receive a higher hourly return.
Investing in a new investment can provide a higher rate if the total amount invested meets the requirements of the specific plan. For example, an initial investment of 1 BTC will yield 0.14%/hour. Adding another 2 BTC moves the investor to a higher paying plan of 0.16%/hour.
The first FlexiBit users are now receiving total net profit on their investments.
FlexiBit has expanded globally, adding more languages to its website. English, Japanese, Spanish, Portuguese and Russian are currently available. German and Polish will be added this week while French and Chinese will be added in the near future.
The company is hosting a referral competition through the month of March that will reward 10 BTC to be split among the five best FexiBit referrers. The competition offers an ideal chance for gifted networkers to earn extra income.
Users who have attracted the most investments will be rewarded as follows:
1st place, 4.5 BTC, 2nd place, 2.5 BTC, 3rd place, 1.5 BTC, 4th place, 1 BTC, 5th place, 0.5 BTC.
Allocated prize money has already transferred to a dedicated bitcoin address. The competition prize has been sent to this dedicated wallet address: 1Fpf4ZMBLkuktqbrZVwWAEq6KFDrjxsN2.
FlexiBit will announce the winners on April 2, 2017. The five winners will receive their earnings immediately after the announcement.
The referral commission rate has been adjusted for the duration of the competition. Contestants will be able to earn on two levels – level 1, 6% and level 2, 1%.
