./html_data_bitcoins/germanys-largest-financial-news-platform-lists-bitcoin-major-currency.txt



CryptoCoinsNews
Finanzen.net, Germany’s most popular and largest financial news network and platform, is listing bitcoin amongst other major reserve currencies such as US Dollar, Japanese Yen and Chinese yuan on the company’s “most important exchange rates” section.
The list contains rates of 7 major reserve currencies which Finanzen.net consider operate as the basis of the global economy. Listing of bitcoin on the exchange rates section implies that Finanzen.net, a key player within the German financial and media industries, considers bitcoin as one of the most important currencies in the world.
In its widely-utilized currency converter and rates ticker platform, Finanzen.net also provides native support for bitcoin, demonstrating year-long charts of bitcoin price and listing the digital currency among all of the reserve currencies listed by the company.

Over the past few months, Finanzen.net consistently broadcasted and reported bitcoin-related news to its nationwide audience and readers in Germany. Earlier this year, Finanzen.net published an article entitled “Digital Currency Bitcoin Outperforms Every Currency in 2016,” which attracted interests and likes of the general population of Germay. 
Earlier this month, Finanzen.net also released a collaborative piece entitled “HSH Nordbank: Focus on Bitcoin,” partnering with the multi-billion bank to provide an in-depth article on the infrastructure of bitcoin, user base of the digital currency, trading activity in different regions and most importantly, the potential of bitcoin.
Besides the German mainstream media, other mainstream media outlets in Europe including Switzerland’s largest news network Neue Zürcher Zeitung have been providing accurate report and coverage on bitcoin as well, introducing the digital currency to the general population that most likely have not come across bitcoin in the past. 
Consistent coverage and accurate portrayal of bitcoin as a decentralized digital currency and a legitimate store of value by mainstream media outlets including Finanzen.net and Neue Zürcher Zeitung will significantly increase mainstream adoption of bitcoin and allow the digital currency to embraced by millions of users that are yet to discover and understand an alternative financial system to that of conventional banking and finance.
Image from Shutterstock.
