


CryptoCoinsNews
Do you wonder where you can get some free bitcoins? For many of us, the discovery of Bitcoin is like the discovery of organic foods. We can see the benefits of using them but find it difficult to justify the cost, and then there is the risk that we’ll be getting a bad deal since we don’t know what we’re doing.
In Bitcoin, it’s like every organic food store has someone out front, offering free samples. Also, there’s a library everywhere you look, but only a few of those libraries have any good information. The largest traders would benefit a great deal if everyone just jumped blindly into Bitcoin, investing large chunks of their life savings in the process. That would be just fine by them, but it’s unlikely to happen. More likely, people are going to get involved with Bitcoin either by necessity, by chance or because someone was willing to give them a few bitcoins to get started with.
Now, before we begin discussing the places out there to get free Bitcoin, let’s just be clear: there is no way to get wealthy without working or investing for it. It is impossible to make an income in bitcoins or any other currency just by clicking around on some websites. However, that being said, cryptocurrencies are unique in that clever marketers can make a profit doing exactly that, giving away money. This would not be possible in other currencies, where they simply can’t be broken down small enough. The operator will usually make less than a penny. If they were forced to give you a penny or more, there’d be no way to be profitable. Getting free bitcoins is not a way to get rich, and certainly not the most profitable use of one’s time, but if you’ve got some free time and would like to pick up a small amount of extra Bitcoin now and then, then this definitive guide will is a great place to start.
Since our last publishing of this guide, perhaps the most fun way to earn free bitcoins, Bitcoin Flapper, has gone by the wayside. The company which operated it no longer do, and appears to only operate iPhone apps with various titles that don’t seem to pay out in bitcoins. Other options in the Google Play Store have arisen to fill the void. Chief among them is the Blockchain Game. You sign up with a two-step sign-up process which involves giving over your e-mail address and then your Bitcoin address.

The game pays out once per week. It’s important to note that like most free games, the Blockchain Game has a lot of advertisements. This is how they are able to afford to pay others. In one sense, Bitcoin faucets and free Bitcoin games could be seen as a method of advertising profit sharing.

Playing the Blockchain game is fun, challenging, and mildly addictive. The frequent interruptions by advertising are, of course, less than ideal, but a necessary evil. Gameplay involves getting to the top level, which has the highest reward. One has to assume that this is based on skill and that the maximum reward is simply the most the company behind it, free Bitcoin veterans Bitcoin Aliens, is willing to pay out for one game.
Getting to only the first level is easy, but each level after that requires that you place the block directly above the previous level. This can be difficult because the block moves on its own and it moves faster with each level. Every ten levels, you get the option to cash out or go further. Here’s what gameplay looks like:


As you can see in the last screengrab, if you fail to place a block, you get the option to continue for watching a short ad.
Another fun game available for Android devices is called Bitcoin Popper. This game takes more of a slot machine approach, and it is completely possible to get a 0.00 prize, as seen here:

The game also offers paid upgrades, such as adding more time to each session. This would make it less popular with the faucet surfers and free Bitcoiners of the world, but nonetheless, it overall seems to have less advertising interruptions.

To win, you must get a few stars that match. Once you have three, you get more payout for each additional one. Bitcoin Popper is significantly harder to play on first glance, but a continual effort will result in a win. After a couple games, the game makes you wait several minutes to try again.

The company behind Bitcoin Popper seems to only be getting started with the game, and so it appears that when they have more players (more revenue), they will be able to offer bigger and faster prizes. In any case, at present it stands as one of the more fun games of chance to win free bitcoins.
Also, a pro tip: if your phone gives you trouble exiting, as the author’s did, simply hold your power button down for a few seconds and the usual menu will appear at the bottom of the screen allowing you to get to your home screen.
Readers may remember CCN’s coverage of PaidBooks.com, a site run by the friendly folks behind Bitcoin Aliens. It has the same functionality as a regular faucet, but instead pays users for reading classic books. It is one of the more interesting and engaging methods of giving away free money, as it gives the user the opportunity to engage in more ways than simply getting around a CAPTCHA and pressing a couple of buttons.
This new game is more straightforward than most: in the two versions of the game, you can either get 10% or 40% of the advertising. The 10% option is immediate, whereas the 40% option is based on “future” advertising profits. The concept of the actual game is simply enough: roll a ball around a table using your phone until you have collected all the coins on the table.

New levels present new difficulties and obstacles between your ball and the coin, but there is no time limit.

Following each level, a video ad will play. The winnings are small, but if you’ve got a long train commute or something, this game is an easy enough way to win free bitcoins.

Most dice websites allow the user to have a free balance to play with, albeit a very small amount. Examples of sites that do this are PrimeDice and 999Dice. Whether you’ll be able to play the actual games depends on your jurisdiction, though you can often withdraw the money you’ve earned for free regardless of where you live. It is possible to research dice strategies and take the free amount and turn it into a substantial amount of money if you’re willing to invest the time. The author once took a 0.000005 faucet payout and turned it into .1 BTC, which was over $30 at the time.
There are some large and reputable bitcoin faucets that have consistently made their payouts for a long time. A few that make such a list are Free Bitcoin, Bitcoin Zebra, and Moon Bitcoin. To find a long list of faucets, visit Land of Bitcoin.
As you can see, cryptocurrency enables marketers to give away the ultimate freebie in the modern age: money. While you would have to spend a significant amount of time to get actual value out of faucet visitation, it does present a chance to become fully immersed in how Bitcoin transactions work.
Featured image from Shutterstock.
