
RPS Feature
Chilling 
By John Walker on March 24th, 2017 at 5:00 pm.

Survival-meets-adventure Kôna [official site] feels like a game that admirably comes in the wake of Campo Santo’s wilderness wonder Firewatch. But it’s worth noting the Kickstarter for the game launched years before Firewatch released. Still, I suspect lessons have been learned and added in the last year, and they’re very welcome, as this proves to be a fascinating game.
Rob Zacny took a look at the Kickstarted project last year during its early access, but much has changed since and now it’s out for real. I’m really pleased to report it’s well worth a look. And, as I always seem to be saying as I launch into these reviews, if you want the experience as I had it – going in completely blind, knowing nothing other than it was a scripted adventure using the techniques of survival games – then take my word for it that it’s a top-notch experience with a slightly damp ending. Otherwise, I’ll give away a little bit more context below because to not do so would make it impossible to talk about in any depth.

Set in late 1970, a private detective called Carl Faubert is called to a small Northern Canadian village in the middle of the wilderness by a local businessman. The case seems odd – one W. Hamilton has requested that he investigate a case of vandalism, which is hardly his usual territory. On arrival, Faubert is involved in a car accident, and after coming around at his wheel discovers the other driver has run from the scene, and heavy snow has fallen along with terrible cold. Too cold to be out and about when injured post accident, certainly. And so kick in your survival game instincts: look for equipment, figure out some first aid, and get your car working again.
That’s the first sign that something’s different here. Pretty much none of the eternally early access survival sims give your character a working automobile. Faubert, armed with a road and trail map of the area, is going to need it however, if he’s got any chance of trying to find help, shelter and warmth.

From this point on you’re afforded a really impressive amount of freedom for a game that’s so tightly scripted in terms of where it’s heading. Progress beyond where it wants you to reach is blocked off, but in a satisfying, narratively justified way, and in my experience the choices I made seemed to rather perfectly match the ideal order in which to encounter everything. Perhaps I got lucky, or perhaps the game used subtle and not-so-subtle direction to push me into picking the right fork in the road – it’s obviously hard to tell. Either way, it worked splendidly, and I was very gladly funneled down its pathways.
So much looks like it plays like, say, The Long Dark, with buildings to find and enter, explore, loot, and shelter inside. Getting a fire lit is absolutely essential if you’re going to keep Faubert alive, and he’s going to need tools, a hammer, a crowbar, and most importantly, light. However, he’s not going to need food and drink, and there you’ll see the biggest step away from the traditions of the genre it’s more aping than following. Because this takes place over a single day and night, and because normal humans outside of video games don’t need to eat a seven course meal every 45 minutes, you’re just fine when it comes to sustenance.

Quickly the story escalates into a murder mystery (because let’s face it, a vandalism investigation might not have been the most riveting story – “It was him.” “Okay.”), then there’s the matter of these strange glowing ice formations that appear on the ground. And why are the local wolves acting so strangely?
Something odd is happening in this small town, and that rather pleasingly affords you the ability to root through people’s houses, go through all their drawers, and read all their private correspondence. Who doesn’t enjoy that? And as you go, Faubert keeps detailed notes in his notebooks, collating the gathered information and helping you put it in order despite discovering it in your own pattern.
This is aided further by the completely sumptuous narration by Forrest Rainier, his mellifluous delivery adding a depth of charm to the story. The only downside of this is a tendency for this commentary to over-explain, especially toward the game’s weaker ending where it culminates in a clumsy exposition dump. (The sort that feels like it should have been more game, but perhaps ran out of time or money or energy. It’s probably relevant that the game was Kickstarted as episodic, but has eventually become a single release.) There are also a few translation issues from the game’s original French, especially with the on-screen text occasionally making little sense. Not a big deal overall, but definitely shows why you should always have a first-language speaker do your proofing whichever language you’re translating to.

The game is packed with lovely details, a favourite being the way some descriptive text is written onto the surfaces of the rooms you’re in (although here the translation is at its worst). It also does spooky extremely well, sneaking up on you when you’re not expecting it, with a good few moments that made me laugh out loud at my own reaction. (Not jump-scares, I should add, for those who avoid such things.) Houses are packed with detail about the people who live there, and there’s a strong sense of place about the whole thing.
I do wish the ending didn’t feel so rushed, somehow at once feeling like it explains far too much, and yet resolves far too little. But the journey there is absolutely worth it – this is a narrative adventure that smartly pretends to be a survival game, while not shying away from wanting to tell you its story. It doesn’t have the slick perfection of Firewatch, it’s a rougher game (and again let’s remember it was Kickstarted years before FW was released), but it understands the same ideas that made Firewatch work, and that’s damned important. 
It’s tremendous at creating its distinct atmosphere and then drawing you deeper in. It’s witty, spooky, and achieves an ideal sense of urgency. Weird, clamant and intriguing, this is well worth a look.
Kôna is out now for Windows, Mac and Linux on Steam and GOG for £15/$20/€20.

24/03/2017 at 18:17

alienryes says:

I agree – it’s really great. I did run a bit afoul of the scripting as I was enjoying wandering and exploring and then managed to trigger nightfall which made further exploring quite difficult. However I was far enough in that I didn’t have the desire to restart.

24/03/2017 at 19:20

SminkyBazzA says:

They seem to have dropped the circumflex recently.

24/03/2017 at 19:59

Don Reba says:

Quebec, there is no way to survive in that barren wasteland for long. I would also like to see a game set in Fort McMurray.

24/03/2017 at 20:08

AlexandreFiset says:

Unfortunately the name Firewatch is already taken.

24/03/2017 at 21:09

Don Reba says:

Oh, there is more to it than just fire.
link to i.imgur.com

25/03/2017 at 02:43

EvilMorty says:

Buuuuurn!

24/03/2017 at 21:36

caff says:

Hmm, I shall have to try this.

24/03/2017 at 21:54

LennyLeonardo says:

Another John Walker hatchet job…

24/03/2017 at 21:55

LennyLeonardo says:

Maybe that joke isn’t a obvious as I thought it was.

24/03/2017 at 22:50

subdog says:

I laughed

25/03/2017 at 01:07

CartonofMilk says:

Definitely checking this out in its original quebecois as i’ve never before had the opportunity to play a game made in my language (france’s french is not quebec french) and set in my culture. I also come from a small town in northern quebec. Though possibly not as northern as in this game…
I can hear the accent just reading “not close to run out of food” because yes it’s a rather literal translation of “pas proche de manquer de nourriture”

25/03/2017 at 06:26

Bernardo says:

I’ve started playing in French, because of John’s remark on translation, but have to tell you that audio is only English, subtitled in French – doesn’t seem Québécois to me. I’ve switched to English text now, because of the disconnect between spoken language and written.
Documents in the game, however, are in French. Haven’t come across any phrases that strike me as particular to Québécois, but then I don’t really know that language.

25/03/2017 at 20:19

Bernardo says:

Sorry, hadn’t played long enough to meet the characters who actually *do* speak Québécois. Narrator is English, some characters not.

26/03/2017 at 19:03

AlexandreFiset says:

The game has both English and French voice overs. In French, the narrator is Guy Nadon, a popular theatre and film actor in Quebec province. You can switch audio and subtitles languages in the Audio settings menu.

25/03/2017 at 10:20

instantcoffe says:

You should try Sang Froid, just for the “folklore” and the “accent”.
The game was pretty decent too.

27/03/2017 at 03:38

goodpoints says:

As someone else pointed out, there is indeed a Quebecois voiceover and it’s rather excellent. At least in my opinion as an American Anglo with a fading grasp on French that’s visited Quebec City a few times. Unfortunately I never managed to go north and see the lakes, but they’re crazy; the scale of it all seems to dwarf anywhere else like even Masuria and the Nordic fjords. BTW, I’m pretty sure the town and lake (Atamipek?) are fictional, but my guess would be it’s based on somewhere in Sagamie. There’s a joke early in the game where you look at a map of the province in the magasin and the text narration says something like “…and this town isn’t even halfway up the province.”
I love it so far though, it’s got just the right amount of Twin Peaks inspiration, but Quebecified. Maybe next we can get a moody noir murder mystery in Quebec City, like how great would it be walking across the windswept Plains of Abraham in a trenchcoat.

25/03/2017 at 07:38

Unsheep says:

It’s a very cool game, with gameplay elements of Firewatch, The Long Dark and Ethan Carter. If you like those games you should have a look at this one too.

25/03/2017 at 12:35

Kong says:

If this is anything like Firewatch Wilderness Wonder…the shortest time spent with a games review ever. Thank you for being frank.
Firewatch felt like what Jean in that Avary movie describes:
“the world is in a bubble of glass and you’re rubbing up against it like a bad windshield wiper”
Just almost but not exactly vice versa.

26/03/2017 at 16:23

poliovaccine says:

Yet again, must thank RPS for being my own personally convenient source for hearing of these awesome, if also less-than-AAA and therefore-harder-to-hear-of games. Had never heard of this one before the review – and my appreciation goes out to any and all who scour the massive throngs of crowdfunding and early access hopefuls to deliver back news of the best successes to us, the humble home tribe, cus I haven’t been this pleased with a new title in a long time, and this is one I would have looked forward to for concept alone if I’d known of it sooner. Though I am still wary of wading through the kickstarters and early access realms on my own treasure hunt after getting all excited and subsequently heartbroken over “Tangiers.”
Thanks for highlighting games like this, RPS. As much as Nier is also an event in gaming right now, I could get coverage on that anywhere. But this site is always great for keeping me clued into the mainstream stuff like that while also keeping me abreast of excellent indies like this one.
Btw, picked this up after the review, started it earlier today, completely love it.

27/03/2017 at 07:35

Bernardo says:

Tangiers is out? I don’t see it?
You must be registered and logged in to post a comment.
XHTML: Allowed code: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strike> <strong> 



If you click our links to online stores and make a purchase we may receive a few pennies. Find more information here.
adventure, feature, Kona, Parabole, review, survival, wot i think.
They look quite good
PING!
This is the end
Dest2ny
The Worthiest Reticules Of All Time
The 5175th series of Planet Earth 
Hit Parade
The long awaited follow-up to Forgotten Realms: Baldur's Gate
A list, probably wrong
No free-to-play, just free.
Read more
NEWS ALERT. NEWS ALERT
Parsers Verbed
A Galaxy Of Errors
WELL?
2.5D remembered.
A trip through nature
Chilling
Everything you need to know.
Digital Extremes explain Octavia's Anthem
This is my life (in games)
For graphics, weapons, the UI and more.
Square and 2K go Humble
One of the best roguelikes, one of the strangest dev teams
