
RPS Feature
Another brick in the wall 
By John Walker on June 30th, 2016 at 7:00 pm.

In some ways Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens [official site] is a refreshing of the extraordinarily prolific Traveller’s Tales series. In other ways it’s fastidiously adherent to the tried-and-tested formula. In nearly all ways it’s a completely splendid game, but even I – the most enthusiastic proponent of this series – am beginning to weary. Here’s wot I think:


Part of me thinks all these Lego games should be reviewed by someone who’s never played any of the others before, so the best of the bunch get the awe I think they deserve. LSW:TFA deserves that awe – it’s a beautifully constructed action-adventure game, perfectly designed for families to play together, absolutely enormous and ridiculously replayable, and to boot, extremely funny. Then again, it’s the fifth Lego Star Wars game, and the eighteenth game in this Lego series. I’ve played fourteen of them, and there’s no way to avoid this affecting my judgement.
Let’s start with the splendid news: After Lego Marvel’s Avengers finally saw the series bother to include some regular PC options (you could even run it in a window without crashing your PC!), TFA follows suit and looks absolutely stunning, running on full whack at a crisp 110FPS on my machine. At last, these are proper PC games. And even better, the interface has received a desperately needed overhaul. Gone are the blurry details in the various corners, replaced with sharp, easy-to-understand replacements, including vastly improved on-screen instructions. It’s ridiculous that it’s taken this long to freshen up the franchise, but it’s great that they have.

Beyond that, this is extremely familiar territory for those who’ve been following along. A strange choice by the most recent games has been to drop a central hub between story levels, replacing them with many, many ‘hubs’, some only visited once, each containing their own bespoke puzzles to be completed before being able to move on. While this adds even more game to the games, it also makes heading back to previous levels a deeply confusing affair until you’re able to find the buried (and never explained) menu options that let you pick (in this case from a star map, with levels scattered around different planets). For those loyal to the Star Wars editions of the run, this will likely prove a peculiar feature.
Otherwise – apart from a surprise trip to Endor and a retelling of the end of Return Of The Jedi – it’s exactly as you’d expect. You play as a varying gang of characters from the film, smashing, jumping and negotiating your way through scenes from the movie in sequence, while searching for eighty-seven billion different collectibles and spotting areas you’ll need to return to later in Free Play mode. Along the way cutscenes intersperse the action, poking fun at the original material while mostly telling the recognisable story. 

But glory-be, these scenes are irreverent! The games, whether by lack of permission or simple tiredness, had rather stopped mocking the source, instead opting for just adding incongruous ice creams in character hands and background gags of Lego people falling over. But here, as with the wonderful original Lego Star Wars: The Video Game, the film itself is often the target of the jokes. Kylo Ren’s teenage petulance is gorgeously poked at, not least with his bedroom covered in Darth Vader posters, duvet and memorabilia. Harrison Ford’s hammy overplaying of Solo is exaggerated with endless winks to camera. There are jokes in here that have made me laugh out loud, which certainly couldn’t be said for Jurassic World or Marvel’s Avengers. And of course there are still plenty of ice creams in everyone’s hands, bananas mistaken for weapons, and people falling over the in the background. Another fun detail indicative of the tone comes from the developers deciding Storm Troopers on a sand planet would see it as a beach holiday, and dressing them accordingly.

There are a couple of new features thrown in. Space combat isn’t one of them, as they’ve done that before, but the ship battles are lots of fun and thankfully easy to control (unlike other vehicles which remain abysmal). Actually new though is cover-combat. It’s not throughout, thank goodness – most of the fighting is the same old smashy stuff – but here and there your gang will duck behind a wall and you pop out to take aimed shots at the baddies. This doesn’t add a whole lot, but it mixes things up a bit. The other tweak is that buildable piles of Lego bricks can now often be built into two or three different things in a scene, sometimes using all three, sometimes offering you a (confusing) choice over which way to tackle something. (Confusing because you’ve no real way of knowing what the result will be.)

In the end, beyond the visual upgrades, the new additions feel extraordinarily incremental, and have left me wishing for something very different. I don’t suppose a Lego Star Wars game would perhaps have been the right place for such a change, since there are many who only play these entries, and they’d likely alienate a lot of that crowd, and then for the same reasons I’m very surprised this game didn’t return to the far more coherent option of a single central hub. But gosh, something new has to happen before they hit twenty of these. Or at least the evolution needs to pick up some pace, not having tiny little extra details feel like the only recognisable movement.
Oh, and there are bugs. This is increasingly the case for the PC ports it seems (while the console versions report their own litanies of issues), but here I’ve had characters falling upward through ceilings, turning invisible, getting stuck under objects, and interactions not working, all of these moments feeling very under-tested and glitchy. Which is a real shame in an otherwise extremely solid game. And it really is – this is, for children, adults, anyone, a really lovely thing, funny, silly, and tremendous fun to play. If you’ve a kid who just got into Star Wars via the new movie, goodness me this can’t be recommended highly enough. But at the same time, and I’ve been the one fighting off saying this for years longer than many others, it’s getting stale. It needs to be something new, to invent a new way to create something so adorable, because at this point it’s getting very hard not to recommend just picking up the older, cheaper titles. You’d barely notice the difference.
Lego Star Wars The Force Awakens is out now for Windows and Mac.

30/06/2016 at 19:10

Mi-24 says:

A great read, although I enjoyed the other lego games (marvel superheroes the most despite the atrocious pc port) this is still too expensive for me at the moment.

01/07/2016 at 14:42

RaoulDuke says:

I was of the same mind, going to leave it a week/month for a price drop, then I found this:
link to cdkeys.com
£10.99! It was £11.99 on release day but drops another pound in the first few hours [I’m guessing because of the day-one issues, which are fixed now]
I don’t think it will be that cheap on steam for 6-9 months. Season pass is there for £4.99 too

10/07/2016 at 00:38

Someoldguy says:

That’s tempting. My kid is burning through the older titles as fast as we are willing to allow him to, so it’s inevitable he’s going to catch up sooner rather than later.

30/06/2016 at 19:25

haldolium says:

“[…] finally saw the series bother to include some regular PC options (you could even run it in a window without crashing your PC!), […] At last, these are proper PC games. ”
To be fair though, the LEGO series does offer the single most greatest PC only feature you can wish for at local coop: dual-monitor-splitscreen. Nothing is more enjoyable as having your friends or family around while having an entire screen all to yourself.
The HUB thingy reminds me with horror of LEGO Batman 3… hope its not as bad, but it sure sounds similar. 
All in all, maybe worth a try.

12/08/2016 at 09:14

tarasis says:

Hang on, it does what now? I can plug two monitors in and assign one per player? If thats true that would be glorious.

30/06/2016 at 19:32

tonallyoff says:

The writer is the same guy who wrote Lego City on the Wii so that explains why this one is funny.

01/07/2016 at 10:22

Graham Goring says:

*basks in glory* ;)

30/06/2016 at 20:28

jonfitt says:

I have some younger children who *loved* Lego Marvel (Original), and played it to death. So I went back and got the 6 movie Lego Star Wars set. I had previously played that solo years ago on PSP of all things, and since they love Star Wars I thought it would be a shoe in.
However much had changed between the two games to make the older one sometimes painful. The main issue is the camera interaction which is abysmal in the older game. One character can get stuck wedged in the side of the screen and pushed to their death infinitely until the other player gets closer (which can be hard to do if they’re flying a ship that won’t stop, or have jumped down a ledge). Also the signaling of the route forward is pretty bad in the older game leading to many confused moments when I have to jump in and try and smash every piece of seemingly inert scenery for the unexpected ladder or whatever.
How well does this new Star Wars game handle the space combat with 2 players? Does the camera adapt well?
They thought The Lego Movie tie-in was ok, but they could never navigate between hubs on their own, it sounds like this will have the same issue there.

01/07/2016 at 14:03

AdamS says:

I’m probably a bit off, but I believe every TT Lego game since Indy 2 has had dynamic split screen, which avoids dragging the other player along when you run towards the opposite edge.
Star Wars 3 Clone Wars has a more straightforward hub, and some interesting almost-RTS-like planet battles, but this latest is probably more refined to your kids’ Marvel eyes.

01/07/2016 at 19:51

jonfitt says:

Thanks!

30/06/2016 at 22:04

Aitrus says:

I haven’t played a Lego game since Lego Star Wars II (I loved that and the first one), so I think I’m going to pick this up at some point. The hub thing certainly sounds weird. Thanks for the review.

30/06/2016 at 23:11

JakeOfRavenclaw says:

I also am growing a little weary of the TT Lego formula, but on the other hand I *really* want to play as Rey in a video game, so…
(This was also the main appeal of the latest Lego Avengers, in which you get to run around and play as Ms. Marvel if you want. No other games are giving me these opportunities!)

01/07/2016 at 01:14

magogjack says:

Really? Her?
I couldn’t finish the movie because her acting reminded me of a Jar Jar Binks. Does she get better as the movie goes on or something ?

01/07/2016 at 16:37

Dances to Podcasts says:

I was more annoyed buy the guy whose acting mostly consisted of heavy breathing. Only Sith can get away with that.

01/07/2016 at 16:43

magogjack says:

What ? 
He was the only good actor in the film, I feel like I have twight zoned….

01/07/2016 at 16:45

magogjack says:

sigh, if not an edit button a delete would do… I assume you mean finn now that I think with my brain and so I concede the point to taste.

04/07/2016 at 05:33

Mandrake42 says:

I have to say I’m with you on the baffling nature of the way the recent games seem to conceal the hub world type stuff. It was such an intrinsic part of my favourite games of the series (Lego Marvel, Batman 2, Lord of the Rings and The Hobbi), that it seems bizarre that in Avengers and now Force Awakens, they have decided to put it in a less than obvious option and never explain how to access it.
If you click our links to online stores and make a purchase we may receive a few pennies. Find more information here.
feature, LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens, review, Travellers-Tales, wot i think.
They look quite good
PING!
This is the end
Dest2ny
The Worthiest Reticules Of All Time
The 5175th series of Planet Earth 
Hit Parade
The long awaited follow-up to Forgotten Realms: Baldur's Gate
A list, probably wrong
No free-to-play, just free.
Read more
NEWS ALERT. NEWS ALERT
Parsers Verbed
A Galaxy Of Errors
WELL?
2.5D remembered.
A trip through nature
Chilling
Everything you need to know.
Digital Extremes explain Octavia's Anthem
This is my life (in games)
For graphics, weapons, the UI and more.
Square and 2K go Humble
One of the best roguelikes, one of the strangest dev teams
