


CryptoCoinsNews
Press Release: HOLLYWOOD, Fla., March 27, 2017 /Sunshine Capital, Inc. (Pink Sheets:  SCNP) Today announces that DIBCOIN, has been approved for trading on the Livecoin platform (LIVECOIN.net). DIBCOIN will commence trading on April 3, 2017 at 9:30 am (EST).
“We are about to make history” stated Adam Petty, President and CEO of Sunshine Capital, Inc. “Once DIBCOIN starts trading on the Live Coin Exchange, it automatically gives Sunshine Capital, Inc. a massive amount of liquid assets. Having DIBCOIN trading on the Livecoin exchange is the first step in implementing our business plan.”
Livecoin is the fourth largest global cryptocurrency exchange. It is a convenient and affordable service for purchasing and selling DIBCOIN and other cryptocurrencies. Its multilingual platform features an intuitive, simple interface for beginners and lots of useful features for experienced traders.
In addition to the user-friendly exchange, Livecoin issues free debit cards to all traders on the platform. These cards can be used for swift withdrawal of cash from the platform without having to wait for the wire transfer or settlement through other payment channels. Also, all user funds on Livecoin’s exchange are stored in “cold storage” for additional safety and security for the users.
“In months, we have done something that takes other companies years to achieve!” exclaimed Honson Luma, Vice President of Sunshine Capital, Inc. “What the investment world needs to understand is that for every penny DIBCOIN trades at, it gives our Company approximately $40 Million Dollars in liquid assets.  So, a single penny should increase Sunshine Capital, Inc.’s book value approximately $2.35 a share.”
Sunshine Capital, Inc. currently holds approximately 4 Billion DIBCOINS in its portfolio. The Company intends to prove that DIBCOIN can be used as a dollar substitute to purchase real world assets. In addition, we will prove that DIBCOIN is a currency, accepted at points of sale across the internet and at retail establishments across the globe.
The private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking information made on the company’s behalf. All statements, other than statements of historical facts which address the company’s expectations of sources of capital or which express the company’s expectation for the future with respect to financial performance or operating strategies, can be identified as forward-looking statements. Such statements made by the company are based on knowledge of the environment in which it operates, but because of the factors previously listed, as well as other factors beyond control of the company, actual results may differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements.
