
Woah there! Sorry to interrupt you. We run a few bonus articles every week which – for a little while at least – are exclusive to the infinitely lovely people who’ve joined the RPS Supporter program. The piece you just clicked on is one of those. Have no fear though – if you’re already part of the Supporter Program, all you need to do is login, and then you’ll be able to read the article you were after, plus browse the full archive of supporter posts here.
If you’re not a supporter but are interested in becoming one, details of that are below. In any case, selected highlights from our Supporter-only pieces will be made public to everyone a few weeks later on.
_______
Hello! The RPS Supporter Program is here. A premium version of the site for those who love it best.
Becoming an RPS Supporter means getting access to a whole new daily stream of writing from your favourite RPS scribes, appearing right in your main feed when you’re logged in, as well as helping us work on all-new reader-funded projects. The Supporter Program is additional to the existing site, so the current crop of news, reviews and features remains unchanged. The Supporter program simply gives you more, if you want it.
Not only that, becoming a Supporter means you’ll get regular free gifts, which are currently money off some games over at GOG.com, and a ludicrously gorgeous Horace hat for Team Fortress 2. IMPORTANT: gifts are supplied on a first-come, first-served basis, and are not guaranteed due to limited numbers. However, any new gifts – which are set to appear regularly throughout the year – will be added automatically to any active account.
If you want to become an RPS Supporter, just pick one of the two options below, and you’ll receive emails with all the instructions you need. When you’re logged in, you’ll see the exclusive Supporter only sections of RPS, and feel all lovely in your tummy.
You can get a 6-month voucher here:

Or a 12-month discounted voucher here:

Once you have the RPS key, you can redeem it at the bottom of your RPS profile page, at the bit that looks like this:

Logged-in supporters can check out your Supporter content over at the Supporter tag.
Oh, and hey, existing Paypal subscribers as of 18th September 2014, please check your email for a complimentary key! (And check your spam folder, Gmail sometimes eats our mailouts!) Thank you – you deserve it.
They look quite good
PING!
This is the end
Dest2ny
The Worthiest Reticules Of All Time
The 5175th series of Planet Earth 
Hit Parade
The long awaited follow-up to Forgotten Realms: Baldur's Gate
A list, probably wrong
No free-to-play, just free.
Read more
NEWS ALERT. NEWS ALERT
Parsers Verbed
A Galaxy Of Errors
WELL?
2.5D remembered.
A trip through nature
Chilling
Everything you need to know.
Digital Extremes explain Octavia's Anthem
This is my life (in games)
For graphics, weapons, the UI and more.
Square and 2K go Humble
One of the best roguelikes, one of the strangest dev teams
