./html_data_bitcoins/seymour-b-v-launches-admiralspot-com-modern-fully-regulated-bitcoin-casino.txt



CryptoCoinsNews
Press Release: This week sees the launch of AdmiralSpot.com, the most modern fully regulated online Bitcoin casino from the Seymour B.V. group.
Featuring a fully responsive web design and licensed in Curacao and Malta, AdmiralSpot brings a new level of cutting edge technology to Bitcoin gaming from developers with a solid background in cryptocurrency.
AdmiralSpot’s fully licensed and regulated games are designed by world class programmers, making it a completely fair casino with high payout rates and a minimum one jackpot per month policy. Users are offered a welcome bonus of up to 500mBTC for their first deposit and at least a 10% reload bonus on each subsequent deposit.
The casino’s VIP program rewards the best players with excellent incentives, including devices from Apple, Samsung and other gadgets, as well as a tailored bonus plan and cashback feature. Customers make take advantage of 24/7 multilingual support offered by an international support team.
AdmiralSpot has also launched a dedicated affiliate program, www.admiralspotpartners.com, which features lifetime revenue sharing opportunities.
AdmiralSpot is owned by the Seymour group of companies, an expert in online entertainment which operates several of the best-known cryptocurrency resources currently online.These include Bitplutos.com, first online 100% anonymous binary options trading platform for bitcoin, eXbino.com a well-established European brand which has been in operation since 2011 with a 100% positive payout history. BuzzLotto.com a super user-friendly lottery messenger service.
While not a cryptocurrency-only resource, Buzzlotto.com accepts Bitcoin payments via Cubits. Christopher van Rosberg,the CEO of Seymour B.V. said:
“AdmiralSPot.com online casino is another reason to be proud of. It proves that we’ve been on the right path for years. I’m extremely excited to have launched such a top-notch and innovative product. The Bitcoin community should love it, I reckon. And I’m not talking about players exclusively, the affiliates will be there too.”
Seymour has become a world-leading standard-bearer for safe and secure online gaming. Its resources have counted over 250,000 real players over the past 6 years, with over 1000 affiliates promoting its brands.
The group’s websites each have a loyal fanbase, with customers returning time and time again to profit from unbeatably fair odds on offer. The biggest winner in the group’s history was player from Italy, who secured 250 BTC in payouts in just 3 months.
With a simple and intuitive sign-up procedure and unintrusive yet fair KYC requirements, AdmiralSpot.com ensures everyone can enjoy the most modern Bitcoin casino resource the internet has to offer.
